# tunisians-egypt-1881

This folder contains material derived from a census of Tunisians in Alexandria in 1881.
- **Jallad** refers to Filib Jallad, _Qamus al-idarah wa-al-qadaʾ_, 3rd ed. (Cairo: Matbaʿat Dar al-Kutub wa-al-Wathaʾiq al-Qawmiyah, 2003), 2:296–300.
- **Nantes** refers to Ministère des Affaires Étrangères, Centre des Archives Diplomatiques de Nantes - Fonds Alexandrie: Recensement—Tunisiens 69/69–73.
- For full source and description, see [Hanley, Will. “Unlocking Islamic Names.” In _Studying the Near and Middle East at the Institute for Advanced Study, Princeton, 1935-2018_, edited by Sabine Schmidtke, 276–83. Piscataway, NJ: Gorgias Press, 2018.](https://zenodo.org/record/1345178).

The TSV file is an archived file referenced in my 2018 essay. It will not be updated.

The CSV and TTL files are work in progress, and may be updated.

## Data dictionary
1. **sequence**: index number, generated by me
1. **sous no**: Nantes archives classification
1. **FullNameJallad**: full name as it appears in list in Jallad, atomized in sequence in fields that follow
1. **FullNameNantes**: full name as it appears in Nantes, atomized in sequence in fields that follow
1. **AltNameNantes**: extra name or spelling culled from miscellaneous mentions in Nantes files
1. **TitleJallad**: Optional title element, at start of name, from Jallad
1. **TitleNantes**: Optional title element, at start of name, from Nantes
1. **Ism1Jallad**: Ism (given name) from Jallad
1. **Ism1Jallad_iri**: Camelcase version of same, for use in IRI generation
1. **Ism1Nantes**: Ism (given name) from Nantes
1. **Ism1Nantes_iri**: Camelcase version of same, for use in IRI generation
1. **Ism2Jallad**: Optional second ism (given name) from Jallad, in cases where it is not preceded by the particle "bin"
1. **Ism2Nantes**: Optional second ism (given name) from Nantes, in cases where it is not preceded by the particle "bin"
1. **jallad_ibn**: the particle "bin," where and as it appears in Jallad
1. **Bin1Jallad**: Ism following "bin" in Jallad, presumably the ism of the father. Where the Nantes version offers "ben" and Jallad does not, I have followed the Nantes version and moved the name from Ism2Jallad to Bin1Jallad.
1. **Bin1Jallad_iri**: Camelcase version of same, for use in IRI generation
1. **Bin1Nantes**: Ism following "ben" in Nantes, presumably the ism of the father. Where the Jallad version offers "bin" and Nantes does not, I have followed the Jallad version and moved the name from Ism2Nantes to Bin1Nantes.
1. **Bin1Nantes_iri**: Camelcase version of same, for use in IRI generation
1. **jallad_ibn_2**: a second particle "bin," where and as it appears in Jallad
1. **Bin2Jallad**: Ism following second "bin" in Jallad, presumably the ism of the paternal grandfather.
1. **Bin2Nantes**: Ism following second "ben" in Nantes, presumably the ism of the paternal grandfather.
1. **Name3Jallad**: A family name, laqab, or nisba, in final position in the Jallad name sequence.
1. **Name3Nantes**: A family name, laqab, or nisba, in final position in the Nantes name sequence.
1. **OtherFamilyJallad**: Any additional family members listed in Jallad.
1. **OtherFamilyNantes**: Any additional family members listed in Nantes.
1. **Profession**: Inconsistently recorded, using abbreviations of my own, from Nantes.
1. **Residence**: Inconsistently recorded, using abbreviations of my own, from Nantes.
1. **Born**: Birth date. Inconsistently recorded, using abbreviations of my own, from Nantes.
1. **Birthplace**: Inconsistently recorded, using abbreviations of my own, from Nantes.
1. **Deceased**: Death date. Inconsistently recorded, using abbreviations of my own, from Nantes.
1. **اهالي**: Indication of place of origin. Inconsistently recorded, using abbreviations of my own, from Nantes.
1. **arrived**: Date of arrival in Egypt. Inconsistently recorded, using abbreviations of my own, from Nantes.
1. **religion**: Mostly inferred--unreliable.
1. **Cote**: Nantes archival indexing system.
1. **Year**: Nantes archival indexing system.
1. **N°**: French consular registration indexing system.
1. **Reg N°**: French consular registration indexing system.
1. **sous N°**: French consular registration indexing system.
1. **Jallad**: Sequence of appearance in Jallad.
1. **Date**: Date of registration. Inconsistently recorded, from Nantes.
1. **Original evidence**: Evidence of Tunisian subjecthood. Rarely given. Inconsistently recorded, using abbreviations of my own, from Nantes.
1. **Marié**: Boolean. from Nantes.
1. **Enfants**: Number of children. from Nantes.
1. **Signes Particuliers**: Distinguishing features. Inconsistently recorded, using abbreviations of my own, from Nantes.
1. **female**: Boolean. Inferred from Nantes.
1. **Veuve**: Name of deceased husband. from Nantes.
1. **Empty**: Boolean. Folder corresponding to this number is empty.
1. **Gratis**: Boolean. Identity document issued without charge by French consulate, usually based on a "certificat d'indigence," a certificate of poverty.
1. **81 Tezkéré**: Boolean. Nantes folder contains an identity document (tezkere) produced by the Dey's agent in 1881.
1. **84**: Boolean. Nantes folder contains an identity document (tezkere) produced by the Dey's agent in 1884, when he produced a second series.
1. **Arabic**: I can't remember what this Boolean field indicates. From Nantes records.
1. **City**: City of registration (from Jallad).
